---
videoId: BtOu6CiEz8M
title: Learn State While You Poop – Intro
---

# Learn State While You Poop – Intro

Hi 👋

It took a while, but I got it. A plan for the new Learn While You Poop series. Here's what we're gonna do 👇

In the next 30 days you're gonna learn everything about React state management and some insights you can use in other frameworks too.

There's going to be 5 modules with about 5 videos each:

1. State management basics and philosophy
2. Using Redux
3. Using MobX
4. Using Unstated
5. Using StateX

We might adjust that plan as things unfold, but the core idea is this: What does it feel like to use the different state management libraries with React?

But 5x5 is 25, not 30! Yes I know. There might be a little extra at the end about syncing all this state with your backend. 

So why should you care about any of this?

Because the way you manage state can make or break your webapp. It's the difference between having a fun and flexible codebase that lets you breathe and gives your team just the right abstractions, and a codebase that makes you pull your hair out in frustration.

Pretty much every time state comes up at one of my workshops, the first thing everyone asks is this:

> How do I decide what to put in my Redux or MobX store and what  should I keep in component state?

> Does it even make sense to use a state management library?

All this and more in this Learn While You Poop series on state. 🤘

We're gonna answer all your questions and compare all the best state management libraries by building the same app in each.