---
videoId: pmR4RWr0XYo
title: Your redux mobx or vuex store is a mess. But why?
---

# Your redux mobx or vuex store is a mess. But why?

- Let's say we think about your app as a series of widgets. Let's say you have a widget here, that has some internal components that, what could a widget do, let's say this one is a drop-down and you have another widget here that takes care of, let's say, the user profile, so it has a face, and some names and things like that. So, you have components in here, and you have components in here as well, which means that you should have a global data store, that takes care of data that is shared by both of these components. So, both widgets have some data that needs to be in common. Let's say, whether the user is logged-in, or whether a super massive error has happened, that the entire application needs to stop. And this works, this works well, you have, you then have actions here, that both feed into actions and they go back to the store. Your data flows in a single direction and everyone's happy. But what about inside? Should this store know about the internal state of a widget for drop-downs? So the internal state of a drop-down widget would be how many items are there, which items are we displaying, is the widget open or not, is there a search turn. What you should be doing is, you have, another small store here. This could be either local state or something that you put in context, maybe even a completely separate redux state or modex store or whatever, and, inside here, your data goes in a single direction. It doesn't, data that this widget requires, or this group of components needs, and other components on the page don't care about, should be local to this section here. When you think about it, the way your app should be structured, is as a series of stores, which have some sort of hierarchy, and within those stores, you then have unidirectional data flows. Or rather, between those stores, you have unidirectional data flows that all go back to the main store, and you kind of connect things that way. So, the idea is, you have many local, local sources of truth that handle a single area of your application, and then you have a global one, that facilitates communication between different parts of your app. That's kind of the approach we're going to be using from here on out, when we build our example app through four different technologies for data management... State management?