---
videoId: JDfD4bqMnmM
title: Redux in 2 minutes
---

# Redux in 2 minutes

- [Swizec] So the basic principals of Redux are gonna sound pretty familiar to you if you've ever written a reduce function before. The basic idea behind Redux, is that you're making a new copy of your data every time you make any change of any kind. It's very functional in nature. You have three basic concepts you have to keep track of and everything else, kinda falls into place from there. You have the main store, which is where you keep all of your data and keep track of change. Then you have what's called a reducer. A reducer makes sure to create a new copy of your data based on whatever action is being taken. And then you have actions that tell your reducers what to do. Something in your view triggers an action and that action travels to what's called dispatcher. That dispatcher calls your reducer to say, "Hey, here's this action and here's this state." "What happens next?" The reducer says, "Oh, I have state, I have an action." "If I know what this action does," "I change the state and return the new state." Redux then says, "Oh cool, I have a new state." "I'm going to put this state into react." And react is then going to react and re-render everything. So let's try to actually start writing some code and implement a little app in Redux and then later we're going to do it with other libraries as well. Okay, this is going to be a completely contrived example, but we're going to build a very simple Redux app that just counts because a counter is easy to implement. We're going to start by creating a store using the create store and giving it a reducer. Our reducer function accepts a state, accepts an action as well. Decides based on the type of work action what to do. By default, we're going to just return our state. Action is increment. We're going state plus action dot value four plus one. So we're now returning, either what the action says is the value of how much to increase by, or it will return one. To render our app inside a provider, our store has, it's a store. This is putting, putting the redux store into context. App is going to be connect function that gets state to props, and have dispatch to props. And our app as props is going to get the value and then action for...