---
videoId: Rl3u9loN35Y
title: How mobx-state-tree makes mobx scale
---

# How mobx-state-tree makes mobx scale

As you work more with MobX, you will soon run into a problem.

> Hm, my app sure is getting big. It doesn't make sense to stuff everything into the same flat MobX store.
> 
> I know! I'll make separate stores and connect them! Maybe I can have stores that are models and stores that hold them together
> 🤔

Great idea! A lot of people do just that.

And that's when life with MobX gets complicated. MobX wasn't really designed for that. Well, it doesn't make it easy, at least.

You'll have a hard time keeping related models in sync, your UI will update in funny ways because there's no concept of transactions, you'll write convoluted tree traversal logic to deal with values being defined or undefined ...

It's a mess.

## Mobx-state-tree

That's where [mobx-state-tree](https://github.com/mobxjs/mobx-state-tree) comes in. A library designed specifically for this problem.

An opinionated version of MobX that forces you to shape your state into a connected tree of models. And everything is typed so you know what to expect.

Here's what using it looks like 👇

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/PO2WpvjN41A" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

The best part is that mobx-state-tree gives you the best of both worlds: mutability *and* immutability

**Mutability**
- change values without pain, *store.index += 1*
- state is self-contained and easy to understand

**Immutability**
- state transactions and snapshots
- time travel debugging
- traceability of changes

It's what I always wanted my MobX to look like and wasn't smart enough to build.

## Example code

And the example code next to its pure MobX version 👇

<iframe src="https://codesandbox.io/embed/w6n47q11r5" style="width:100%; height:500px; border:0; border-radius: 4px; overflow:hidden;" sandbox="allow-modals allow-forms allow-popups allow-scripts allow-same-origin"></iframe>
