---
videoId: MuAhztaKmZ4
---

So I mentioned components a lot, and said that that's what makes reacts so great. But why would you even care? Well, a component is a lot like a lego piece. Think of this glider, for instance. It's built out of a bunch of little lego pieces that you can put together to build this glider, or something else. If we take this glider apart, you can see that it's build out of wings, and a bunch of a lot more basic pieces. Lego gives us these building blocks, and we can build whatever we want. And, because I don't remember what the glider used to look like, I'm just going to make something else. But, I'm reusing the same components. So this glider is not goin to fly very well, but it's still built out of the same components.

And that's the idea behind components. They're pieces of prebuilt functionality that you can put together to assemble a new web app. Except unlike with Lego, it's also like to have your own 3D printer and you can build any component that you want.

Let's say you're building a [inaudible 00:00:50]. Has little messages like this. Well, not so little but each message has a little avatar, with a person in it, and maybe a name and some text. And they all kind of just repeat like that, right? The idea is that because all of these look the same, you can make each of them a component. This would be a message component. This is a completely custom component, that is actually created from an avatar, a name and some text. And these further can be divided into more components. So, an avatar is built from an image, blah, blah, blah, a name, and so on. Text can have a read more function. Once you hae these basic components built up, you can build them up into a message component. And once you have a message component, you can display this message many times by just saying, "Hey, this is a message."

So you can create these building blocks for yourself that you can reuse anywhere in your app, in your other apps, what's really nice about components is that you can work on each component completely individually. You work on that component, you get that component perfect, and specialized and amazing, and then you can reuse it anywhere. And it works the same in every part of your app, in all of your apps. You can share these components with other people. So, you can build a huge ecosystem of components that everybody can reuse. Have dropdown components, search components, button components, all these sorts of different things that are like lego blocks for you. Components are awesome and they're definitely the future of how we're building web apps.
