---
videoId: BiserlchfKg
---

We talked about how you can assign a chunk of JSX to a variable and that's basically a component already. In just a few tweaks, you can change any chunk of JSX into a react component. You need to return it from a function, and the function name needs to start with a capital letter. We have a link constant that has some JSX assigned to it. If we change link to start with a capital letter, and say that it is actually a simple function that returns from JSX, we can now change here where we're using link into what looks like straight up HTML.

Now that we have this link component, we can keep reusing it, and if we apply it multiple times, we get multiple links. Now, let's say we want to pass the actual URL as an attribute into a link. We would use a prop for that. We passed craft as a prop into our component, which means we get it as an argument here in our function. Render it into our HTML, and now all these links are pointing to different URLs. So let's try adding some text. If you want to get something from the body of a component, we use the children prop. It's sort of a magical prop that's just always there, and here instead of click on me, I see once more that we can render any sort of expression in curly braces inside JSX. Because JSX is just JavaScript, we can do this as well. Put more JSX into our body and render it here as a simple value. It renders as a bold string, because we said it's bold using B. But let's say we want to make something a little bit more complex.

Let's say we want to have an avatar component, so we take that image, then we create a text component, renders children in a paragraph. Now, a name component, use text, and pass in bold and name. All this together is a message. And, if we want to render a bunch of messages. And for each message, we want to render a message component. We've essentially built a simple message feed. And we have a message component and this message component is rendered in a loop down here. And just like that, we built a check message component that renders a message with an avatar, a name and some text.
