---
videoId: 9y4zyPCs6aQ
title: Class-based React components
---

# Class-based React components

Functional React components are great. They get the job done. But there's a type of component that's even better: A class-based component.

Class-based React components are a lot like functional components. You give them props and they render JSX.

But they also have state, lifecycle hooks, and all the bells and whistles that come with a JavaScript class. Let me show you ðŸ‘‡

Take our `<Message>` component from before

```jsx
const Message = ({ user, text }) => (
  <div style={{ display: 'flex', height: '200px', padding: '10px 0px' }}>
    <Avatar src={user.avatar} />
    <div style={{ flexDirection: 'column' }}>
      <Name>{user.name}</Name>
      <Text>{text}</Text>
    </div>
  </div>
)
```

To turn it into a class-based component, we name this function `render`, and wrap it in a class. Like this:

```jsx
class Message extends React.Component {
  render() {
    const { user, text } = this.props
    return (
      <div style={{ display: 'flex', height: '200px', padding: '10px 0px' }}>
        <Avatar src={user.avatar} />
        <div style={{ flexDirection: 'column' }}>
          <Name>{user.name}</Name>
          <Text>{text}</Text>
        </div>
      </div>
    )
  }
}
```

We create a class called `Message` and define a `render` method. The method takes `user` and `text` out of props, much like before, and returns the same JSX as before.

You'll see this pattern a lot when you work with React. Components often start functional, then turn into class-based components when you need more power.

Notice that props come from `this.props` instead of the function's arguments. That's where React stores component properties, but don't ever change this object yourself!

Think of props as read only. ðŸ™ðŸ»

## State

If you do need to store something, you should use `state`.

> state is like props that change over time

React uses state to keep track of changes in your components. When you change state, React re-renders your component.

Keep your components pure, relying just on `props` and `state`, and you will never render anything you shouldn't. Your UI will be a pure always correct representation of your application logic. More on that in the next chapter.

You can set default component state upon initialization:

```jsx
// shorthand approach
class Message extends React.Component {
  state = {
    seen: false,
  }
}

// longer approach
class Message extends React.Component {
  constructor() {
    this.state = {
      seen: false,
    }
  }
}
```

Which approach you can use depends on your toolchain. Most modern React environments support the not-yet-quite-standard [public class fields](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-class-public-fields) JavaScript feature.

It's safe to use the shorter version. Most codebases I've seen do.

You can access state using `this.state`:

```jsx
class Message extends React.Component {
  state = {
    seen: false,
  }

  render() {
    const { user, text } = this.props,
      { seen } = this.state
    return (
      <div style={{ display: 'flex', height: '200px', padding: '10px 0px' }}>
        {seen ? <p>seen before</p> : null}
        <Avatar src={user.avatar} />
        <div style={{ flexDirection: 'column' }}>
          <Name>{user.name}</Name>
          <Text>{text}</Text>
        </div>
      </div>
    )
  }
}
```

### Manipulating state

But don't change values in `this.state` directly! It's going to cause hard-to-debug issues and stale UI rendering.

Instead you should use `this.setState`. That way React knows what's going on and can react accordingly.

```jsx
this.setState({
  seen: true,
})
```

You can think of `setState` as running `Object.assign` on your state object. Existing keys are overwritten with new values, new keys are added.

And it re-renders your component ðŸ¤˜

### Exercise

Try adding a `Seent It` button to your `<Message>` component that flips the `seen` state. Use the `onClick` event handler.

<iframe src="https://codesandbox.io/embed/7yyjvqoloq" style="width:100%; height:500px; border:0; border-radius: 4px; overflow:hidden;" sandbox="allow-modals allow-forms allow-popups allow-scripts allow-same-origin"></iframe>

## Lifecycle hooks

Another great feature of class-based components are lifecycle hooks. You can use them to do things based on what React is doing with your component.

We're going to talk about this in more detail later. Right now I just want to show you the basic idea.

Let's say we want to do something when React puts our component onto the page for the first time. Like print out a message saying a `<Message>` was mounted into the DOM.

```jsx
class Message extends React.Component {
  componentDidMount() {
    console.log('Message mounted')
  }
}
```

Add that and when you refresh the page, two messages print out.

Try it ðŸ‘‡

<iframe src="https://codesandbox.io/embed/rkl5wj33p" style="width:100%; height:500px; border:0; border-radius: 4px; overflow:hidden;" sandbox="allow-modals allow-forms allow-popups allow-scripts allow-same-origin"></iframe>

Lifecycle hooks might not seem as useful as component state, and they're not, but they often come in handy. Especially for integrating with third party libraries.

## Functional vs. class compnents

There you go. Two types of components. Functional components are light and breezy, and class-based components give you more power with state, lifecycle hooks, and all the other class stuff.

Personally I like to start every component as a function, then expand into a class when necessary.
